Harry and Meghan in ‘sheer delight’ at Archie’s birth and ‘can’t keep eyes off him’

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are basking in the ‘sheer delight’ of 
parenthood since welcoming their first born son into the world, friends of the 
couple have claimed. 

Since his birth three weeks ago, Archie Harrison 
[https://metro.co.uk/tag/archie-harrison] Mountbatten-Windsor has been 
introduced to variety of his parent’s famous friends, including Tennis ace 
Serena Williams and Meghan’s best friend Jessica Mulroney. 

But while they haven’t given any details away about the new bundle of joy, 
others have expressed their delight about the pair’s new role as mum and dad. 

Polo player Nacho Figueras was among those who met Archie this week, and told 
Johnny Hornby – Chairman of Harry’s charity Sentebale – how in love the prince 
is with his son. 

Johnny told People 
[https://people.com/royals/prince-harry-cant-take-eyes-off-archie-meghan-markle/]: 
‘Nacho met little Archie last week and said that the Duke couldn’t take his 
eyes off of him — nor his hands. The two of them are just in a state of sheer 
delight over this birth.’ 

‘He has always had a great love for children and a great understanding of 
them. I noticed that becoming a father has influenced him and his dedication 
and love for the project is now stronger than ever.’ 

Earlier this week, Harry was given a break from nappy duty and had a night 
away from home for a charity polo match in Italy. 
[https://metro.co.uk/2019/05/24/prince-harry-spends-first-night-away-baby-archie-play-charity-polo-match-9687610/] 

The game was in aid of his Sentable charity supporting young people living 
with HIV. 

The annual event has raised more than £6 million for the work of Sentebale 
since it was first held in Barbados in 2010. 

Harry and Meghan are also reportedly planning on taking Archie to see some of 
the world, and could be taking him to Africa. 
[https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-7068943/EDEN-CONFIDENTIAL-Harry-Meghan-planning-trip-South-Africa-baby-Archie.html] 

Botswana holds a special place in their hearts after getting to know each 
other on a trip there at the beginning of their relationship. 

They are now planning to go there with their son, according to a South African 
official who spoke to the Daily Mail. 
[https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-7068943/EDEN-CONFIDENTIAL-Harry-Meghan-planning-trip-South-Africa-baby-Archie.html] 

They said: ‘People have been informed that the Duke and Duchess will be 
coming. ‘Early preparations have begun.’ 

Meghan is also apparently eager to take Archie to America and wants him to 
experience it sooner rather than later, according US Weekly. 

If you have a story for our news team, email us at webnews@metro.co.uk 
[https://metro.co.ukmailto:webnews@metro.co.uk]. 

You can also follow us on Facebook [https://www.facebook.com/MetroUK/] and 
Twitter. 