Tylenol For Infants And Children Is The Same. Why Does 1 Cost 3 Times More?



      Selena Simmons-Duffin
     
[https://www.npr.org/people/349308023/selena-simmons-duffin]
 


                Infants' Tylenol comes with a dosing syringe, while 
Children's Tylenol has a plastic cup. Both contain the same concentration of 
the active ingredient, acetaminophen.
                
                
       
             
                    Ryan Kellman/NPR
                    
       
         
hide caption
 

Infants' Tylenol comes with a dosing syringe, while Children's Tylenol has a 
plastic cup. Both contain the same concentration of the active ingredient, 
acetaminophen. 

If you've ever had a little one at home with a fever, you might have noticed 
two options for Tylenol at the store. 

There's one for infants and one for children. They contain the same amount of 
medicine — 160 milligrams of acetaminophen per 5 milliliters of liquid — but 
the infant version costs three times more. 

For decades, Infants' Tylenol 
[https://www.tylenol.com/products/infants-tylenol-oral-suspension] was 
stronger than the children's version. The thinking was that you don't want to 
give babies lots of liquid medicine to bring down a fever — so you can give 
them less if it's stronger. 

"It was three times more concentrated," says Inma Hernandez 
[https://www.pharmacy.pitt.edu/directory/profile.php?profile=1617] of the 
University of Pittsburgh School of Pharmacy. Since it contained more 
acetaminophen, the active ingredient, she says, it made sense that it was also 
more expensive. "The price per milliliter was five times higher," Hernandez 
says. 

But there was a problem: Parents were making mistakes with dosing. Babies got 
sick — some even died 
[https://www.propublica.org/article/tylenol-mcneil-fda-kids-dose-of-confusion]. 
So in 2011, at the urging of the Food and Drug Administration, the maker of 
brand-name Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson, announced a change: Infants' Tylenol 
would be the same concentration as Children's Tylenol. 

A quick search online shows 4 ounces of Children's Tylenol selling for $5.99, 
and Infants' Tylenol also selling for $5.99, but for only 1 ounce of medicine. 
With many store brands of acetaminophen, it's the same story: The infant 
version is generally three times more expensive than the one for children. 

Kim Montagnino of Johnson & Johnson said in a statement to NPR that Infants' 
Tylenol is more expensive because the bottle is more sturdy and it includes a 
dosing syringe, instead of a plastic cup. "These safety features of Infants' 
Tylenol (dosing syringe, rigid bottle) are more expensive to manufacture than 
the dosing cup and bottle for Children's Tylenol," Montagnino wrote. 

"The cup versus the syringe doesn't really explain the price difference in my 
opinion," Hernandez says. "They're really cheap because they're just plastic. 
When we think of what's expensive in a drug, it's actually the active 
ingredient, and the preparation of that active ingredient in the formulation, 
not the plastic cup or the syringe." 

But Johnson & Johnson's explanation makes sense to Edgar Dworsky, a consumer 
advocate and founder of the website Consumer World 
[https://www.consumerworld.org/]. "There's an extra thing in the box, and 
extra things usually cost money," he says. 

"Think of a spray cleaner. You can buy the spray cleaner in the spray bottle, 
and that costs a little more money. Or you can buy the refill that gives you 
more ounces but it doesn't have the sprayer on top — it's kind of the same 
concept." 

But this, of course, is not a spray cleaner. It's medicine. And parents are 
sensitive to marketing because the stakes are so high. 

"I would certainly imagine that product-makers know that parents want to be 
very cautious when buying products for their kids," Dworsky says. "Really, the 
lesson is — read the label. See what you're getting for your money." 

Pediatrician Ankoor Shah 
[https://childrensnational.org/choose-childrens/find-a-provider/ankoor-shah] 
at Children's National Health System in Washington, D.C., knows how confusing 
all of this is for parents because he gets tons of questions from them about 
over-the-counter medications. 

"The packaging and the dosing is not easy, it's not simple and — personal 
opinion — it's not parent-friendly," Shah says. 

For instance, Infants' Tylenol doesn't say on the label what the correct 
dosing is for a baby under age 2. It just says "ask a doctor." Shah says he 
still uses a calculator to figure out how much to give a child, based on their 
weight, and gives slips to parents at kids' well visits. You can also find the 
information from reputable sources online 
[https://www.stlouischildrens.org/health-resources/dosage-tables/acetaminophen-tylenol-dosage-table]. 

He says whether you opt for the Children's or Infants' bottle of acetaminophen 
at the store, the most important thing is to get the dosing right. 

"When you start giving more acetaminophen than recommended, there are serious 
side effects that could happen," he says. 

The bottom line is: Know what you need. And if you need to spend that extra 
couple of dollars for the syringe and the special bottle to get the dosing 
just right, maybe the markup is worth it. 

If you think you might have inadvertently overdosed a child, contact your 
doctor or call your local poison control center [https://aapcc.org/centers]. 
There are 55 poison control centers across the U.S.; all of them can be 
reached at the same hotline number: 1-800-222-1222. 