Colorado lawyer dies while descending Mount Everest, officials say

Fox News Flash top headlines for May 27 are here. Check out what's clicking on 
Foxnews.com 

A Colorado [https://www.foxnews.com/category/us/us-regions/west/colorado] 
patent lawyer died Monday while descending from the summit of Mount Everest, 
the second American in as many weeks to die during the peak climbing season on 
the world's highest mountain. 

An official from Nepal's Department of Tourism told Reuters that Christopher 
Kulish, 62, reached the 29,035-foot peak via the mountain's Southeast Ridge, 
but passed away suddenly at the South Col, approximately 3,000 feet below the 
summit. 

In a statement to Fox 31, 
[https://kdvr.com/2019/05/27/boulder-lawyer-dies-on-descent-from-summit-of-mount-everest/] 
Kulish's relatives said they were "heartbroken" by the 62-year-old's death. 
They told the station he reached the summit in ideal weather conditions Monday 
morning and saw the sunrise. The family also said Kulish was trying to join 
the so-called Seven Summits club by climbing the highest peak on each 
continent. Mount Everest was all that stood between Kulish and the successful 
completion of his quest. 

MOUNT EVEREST IS COVERED IN GARBAGE AND DEAD BODIES: REPORT 
[https://www.foxnews.com/world/mount-everest-garbage-dead-bodies] 

At least nine people have died in recent weeks while trying to climb Everest 
on the Nepali side during the abbreviated climbing season, which ends this 
month. Two other climbers have died attacking the summit from the Tibetan 
side. 

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP 
[https://foxnews.onelink.me/xLDS?pid=AppArticleLink&af_dp=foxnewsaf%3A%2F%2F&af_web_dp=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.foxnews.com%2Fapps-products] 

Officials say a backlog of climbers and their Sherpa guides has caused delays 
in reaching the summit that have exacerbated the dangers of altitude sickness, 
which is caused by low amounts of oxygen at high elevation and can cause 
headaches, vomiting, shortness of breath and mental confusion. 

Last week, 55-year-old Don Cash, from Utah, died of altitude sickness near the 
Hillary Step while descending from the summit. 

Click for more from Fox 31. 
[https://kdvr.com/2019/05/27/boulder-lawyer-dies-on-descent-from-summit-of-mount-everest/] 