Michael Gove defends 'backstabbing' of Boris Johnson and David Cameron in leadership pitch

The Tory Brexiteer was confronted by BBC host Nick Robinson on whether he 
could be "trusted" to lead the Conservative Party and the country after having 
ruthlessly "backstabbed" Boris Johnson 
[https://www.express.co.uk/latest/boris-johnson] and David Cameron in the 
past. Mr Gove, a long term friend of the former Prime Minister, led the Leave 
campaign against Mr Cameron ahead of the 2016 Brexit referendum. He then 
announced he would back Boris Johnson as new Tory leader and Prime Minister 
following Mr Cameron's resignation, only to announce he was running himself 
two hours before Boris Johnson made his leadership pitch official.  

BBC host Nick Robinson asked the Tory candidate: “A real question for you in 
the next few weeks in the leadership contest will be who is the real Michael 
Gove? 

“Is it the man who - forgive the phrase - stabbed Boris Johnson in the back 
and David Cameron in the front? 

“Or are you the very courteous man that we see day after day on the television 
and the radio?” 

Mr Gove responded: “I think there is ample evidence from the time that I spent 
in Government and - as you mentioned, you know me since I was at university - 
that I’ve had certain convictions and beliefs. 

 You can rely on being able to judge broadly how I’m going to react to most 
political issue 

“And, of course, some of them have evolved over time, but I think you would 
say that they have been very consistent. 

“You can rely on being able to judge broadly how I’m going to react to most 
political issues on the basis of what you’ve seen. 

“I think that I’ve been in the political frontline for ten or so years now and 
during that time I think I’ve been able with the help of others and teams that 
we’ve built to achieve a significant demand.” 

It comes as Prime Minister Theresa May announced last week she will resign 
from her post on June 7.  

Her speech on Friday sparked a huge leadership contest among Conservative 
Party rivals keen to replace her as Prime Minister. 

Together with Micahel Gove, Health Secretary Matt Hancock announced his 
leadership campaign on Saturday. 

Also running so far are Boris Johnson, 54, Dominic Raab, 45, Jeremy Hunt, 52, 
Rory Stewart, 46, Andrea Leadsom, 56, and Esther McVey, 51. 